Next, we'll create a new graph by
adding the continents dataset,
import the GraphStream library,
import the countriesGraph into
a GraphStream SingleGraph,
visualize the countriesGraph,
and visualize the Facebook graph.
In this hands-on exercise we
will use the GraphStream library
to visualize countries graph.
The metros graph that we have been
working with in the previous exercises.
This time with the continent vertices and
edges added.
Starting again where we left off
from the previous hands-on exercise,
ensure your [INAUDIBLE] has started and
that you've imported the data.
First, in order to make
the graph more interesting,
we are going to import additional
vertices from the continent.csv, and
additional edges from
country_continent.csv to create
a relationship between the country and
the continent it belongs to.
We will show the steps for
importing the datasets, but
we do not cover the steps in detail.
If you aren't sure how to
import a dataset, go back and
view the video called
hands-on building a graph.
Now, we are going to concatenate the
metros, countries, and continents vertices
into a single variable and concatenate
the metros to countries edges, and
countries to continent edges
into another single variable.
Finally, you will create a new
graph called countriesGraph.
Now, import the GraphStream library.
We will not go over in detail how
to use the GraphStream library.
You can review its documentation and
other online resources on your
own if you are interested.
First, create a new instance of
GraphStreams SingleGraph class,
using the countriesGraph.
Next, we will set some attributes for
the graph we are going to visualize,
including setting a style for the graph.
GraphStream uses cascading style sheets or
CSS just like ordinary web pages,
to control the appearance of the graph.
The zip file that you downloaded from
Coursera contain the CSS file that we will
use in this hands-on exercise.
Now, load the countries graph
vertices into the visualization
using GraphStreams add node method.
Notice that we are setting
the style UI.class of each vertex
depending on if the vertex is an instance
of the metro, country or continent class.
Add the edges of country's graph to
the visualization using GraphStreams
add edge method.
Finally, call the display
method to visualize the graph.
The graph will look similar to this.
The small blue dots are the metropolises,
the medium sized red dots
are the countries, and
the large green dots are the continents.
By looking at the clusters
you can easily identify which
continent in the visualization
is Antarctica.
It is the green dot that
has no connections or
it is the least connected
cluster in the network.
I hope your paying attention,
because this will be on the quiz.
The large cluster of dots at the bottom is
Asia because it has the most countries and
metropolises in the graph.
The Asia cluster is the most
connected cluster in the network.
Can you identify which clusters
are the other continents
by looking at the visualization?
Let's look at the visualization
of a much larger dataset,
the Facebook dataset with 90,000 vertices.
You've seen these techniques
before with the metro dataset, but
that graph had only around 90 vertices.
Because we want you to learn the concepts,
not be bogged down with repetitive tasks,
we've supplied this Cloudera file in order
to create the visualization of the graph.
All you need to do is open
a new terminal window.
Go into the examples of
analytic directory and
run the spark shell with
the Facebook.Cloudera file.
Don't worry about copying
the full command from the video.
A text version will be included
within the course reading
that contains the full command for
you to copy and paste.
What do you see?
My first reaction is that
it looks like broccoli.
A green vegetable reviled by many
American children, unjustly.
Social networks are made up of
several clusters of communities or
pockets of people who interact densely
that are brought together by people who
are members of multiple communities.
This interlinking of clusters
gives the social network
a broccoli like shape when visualized.
I hope you heard the last thing I said
because that will be on the quiz.